# Motivation
As a product manager, I've had to make data-driven decisions about how best to improve products my team is working on. For example, I may have to decide which SEO terms to highlight in a new blog post, which ads to buy on Google, or which feature to work on next. While most of my classroom data analysis has been on fixed datasets, real world decisions should often use the most up-to-date information. With the help of my project leader Leon Staubach and Open Avenues, I created a tool to analyze e-commerce data in real time. 

# Summary of the Approach
I analyzed an 8.39 GB csv file made up of "view", "add to cart" and "purchase" events from customers of an online store. These events included fields such as price and item category. My project leader, Leon Staubach, created a simplified version of a Kafka messenger which I used to send messages from the CSV file and then receive them as I would a real-time data event. When a new event comes through, I add the relevant price and category information into the algorithm based on the type of event. I display the output periodically using a graph from Matlab. The viewer can see how much revenue is being produced per view for various item categories letting the product manager make data-driven decisions.

# Next steps
There are many other factors that would help the product manager make advertising decisions. One key factor is the average cost of goods sold for the category. We could incorporate this data into the analysis to determine average profit per view. 

# Key assumptions
There are other more popular ways to analyze user behavior on website such as determining average churn per new page. Instead of finding this data for different categories by analyzing individual user sessions, measuring views vs profit per category is a much less expensive operation and generalizes nicely for the information we are looking for. A major weakness in the dataset and analysis is that we don't know where the view comes from (an ad, a search engine, an affiliate link, or one of our web pages). A major danger would be if average profit from advertising views is much higher than views from other web pages. If this is the case, we would continue to spend our ad budget on the category which is already being spent on the most, resulting in an endless cycle. A future iteration should base the analysis on where the view comes from.

# Learnings
The main thing I learned is how to work with others and get feedback. I also learned more about data driven decision making with large datasets. I want to give a huge thanks to my project leader, Leon Staubach, for his help in this project. Before this project, I had zero experience in real-time data analysis, and he was always extremely patient in helping me understand the next steps. He also had super fun topics to teach us every week like the importance of explainability in ML models or using sin/cos space for numerical features with cyclical proerties. I also want to thank Phillip Park and Regina Paek for their willingness to share their progress every week so that we could all learn from each other.
